CC: darwinula@gmail.com

Dear Dr. Fortino,

We have received the reports from our advisors on your manuscript, "Evidence for positive priming of leaf litter decomposition by contact with eutrophic pond sediments", which you submitted to Hydrobiologia.

Based on the advice received, the Editors feel that your manuscript could be reconsidered for publication should you be prepared to incorporate revisions. When preparing your revised manuscript, you are asked to carefully consider the reviewer comments which are attached, and submit a list of responses to the comments. YOU ARE KINDLY REQUESTED TO ALSO CHECK THE WEBSITE FOR POSSIBLE REVIEWER ATTACHMENTS!

In order to submit your revised manuscript, please access the journal's website:

Your username is: fortinok
If you forgot your password, you can click the 'Send Login Details' link on the EM Login page at https://www.editorialmanager.com/hydr/.

Note: When uploading your revised files, please make sure only to submit your editable source files (i. E. Word, tex).

We look forward to receiving your revised manuscript before 08 Oct 2019.

With kind regards,
Springer Journals Editorial Office
Hydrobiologia

COMMENTS TO THE AUTHOR:

Dear Kenneth Fortino,
numerous declinations to review have consistently slowed down the review process. To avoid further delay, and considering the minor points raised by the reviewer, I have decided to go through the text myself (see document attached).

The manuscript is very well structured and written. Although the experimental setup is simple and the analytical effort apparently limited, the message and final remarks are clearly stated and, in my opinion, potentially attractive for the readership of this journal.

As you can see in the document attached, I have noted numerous comments, suggestions, and points to be amended and corrected. In particular, it is important to rework on the introduction and discussion to remove redundant and speculative sentences.

I hope you can easily address the raised points in view of considering your manuscript for publication.

Sincerely, 
Stefano Amalfitano
Associate editor


Reviewer #1: Ref: HYDR-D-19-00340

Title: Evidence for positive priming of leaf litter decomposition by contact with eutrophic pond sediments

Journal: Hydrobiologia  

Authors:  Fortino et al. 

Fortino et al. reported the priming of refractory organic matter in contact with labile organic matter in a pond setting. They determined the priming effects by measuring the loss of carbon and toughness from leaf discs with and without contact with the pond sediments that is rich in labile organic matter.

In general, this is a straightforward manuscript. The majority of the suggested changes below relate to minor issues of grammar and repetition. Some general comments/questions are given followed by more detailed comments below.

1. Line 135: Were the leaves collected in 2013 or it is a typo? How can the experiment be conducted in 2016 while the leaves were collected in 2013?

2. Line 243: Why there was no difference in AFDM loss? Is it necessary to include AFDM if the authors think it is because of measurement error as stated in line 340? If the authors think it is necessary to include AFDM, then some additional discussion is necessary by comparing these results with the literature.

Detailed comments:

Line 36-37: "is" has been used twice in a single sentence. Please revise.
Line 44 is a repetition of what was stated earlier.
Line 53-54: "that" has been used twice in a single sentence. Please revise.
Line 74: Please correct "have has".
Line 89: What do you mean by "small ponds are a very abundant freshwater habitat"? Please revise t his sentence.
Line 106: "we measured" instead of "we were measured".
Line 261: "indicates a" instead of "indicates in a".
Line 262: It is stated that 34.6 mg more fungal biomass on the leaves in contact with the sediments. However, in the next sentence, the authors stated "The greater fungal biomass on the leaves not in contact with the sediments". So, was the fungal biomass more on the leaves in contact with the sediments or in the leaves without contact with the sediments?
Line 269: In the text, it is stated as 0.068 whereas in figure 4 it is stated as 0.069. Please be consistent.
Line 270 and 273: I think use of "unaccounted for" is not correct here. Understandably, the C loss is related to microbial activity.
Line 288 and 291: Please delete "source" in both these sentences.
Line 339: Figure 1 has been cited, where as Fig. 1 is not related to AFDM loss. Fig. 1 should not be cited here.

Indeed studies on organic matter dynamics in pond settings are rare while majority of the studies are focused on streams, estuaries, or coastal waters. Once these minor changes are considered, I feel that the paper will be a valuable addition in the field and is highly recommended for publication.


Reviewer #2: See attachment.

